Add intergalactic-transmission exercise (#2543)
exercism/problem-specifications: exercises/intergalactic-transmission/instructions.md

# Instructions

> Your job is to help implement the message sequencer to add the parity bit to the messages and the decoder to receive messages.

Reviewer: The double "to" in this sentence might be worth changing.

> The entire message, itself, is sequence of a number of bytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The message is a sequence of bytes.
```

> The transmitters and receivers can only transmit and receive one byte at a time, so parity bit needs to be added every eighth bit. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The transmitters and receivers can only transmit and receive one byte at a time, so a parity bit needs to be added every eighth bit. 
```

Also as a layperson, I’m already a bit confused by bit vs byte so we may want to simplify.

The algorithm for adding the bits is as follows:
1. Divide the message bits into groups of 7, starting from the left (the message is transmitted from left to right).

> 2. If the last group has less than 7 bits, append some 0s to pad the group to 7 bits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If the last group has less than 7 bits, append 0s until that group has 7 bits.
```

What are the 0s signifying?

3. For each group, determine if there are an odd or even number of 1s.

> 4. If the group has even number of 1s or none at all, append a 0 to the group. Otherwise, append 1 if there is odd number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. If the group has an even number of 1s or none at all, append a 0 to the group. Otherwise, append 1 if there is an odd number of 1s.
```

For example, consider the message 0xC0_01_C0_DE.
Writing this out in binary and locating every 7th bit:

```text
C    0    0    1    C    0    D    E
1100_0000 0000_0001 1100_0000 1101_1110
       ↑        ↑        ↑       ↑        (7th bits)
```

The last group has only 4 bits (0b1110), so three 0 bits are appended to make it 7 bits:

```text
| 1100_000 | 0000_000 | 0111_000 | 0001_101 | 1110_000 |
```

The first group contains two 1s (an even number of 1s), so 0 is appended to the group.
The second group has none, so append 0.

> The rest have three, so they append 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rest have three each, so they append 1.
```

> The rest have three, so they append 1.

Reviewer: Drop the "they". There is no "them" in the other steps.

```text
| 1100_0000 | 0000_0000 | 0111_0001 | 0001_1011 | 1110_0001 |
| C    0    | 0    0    | 7    1    | 1    B    | E    1    |  (in hex)
```

> Thus, the transmission sequence is 0xC0_00_71_1B_E1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting  transmission sequence is `0xC0_00_71_1B_E1`.
```

# Instructions

A parity bit is simple way of detecting transmission errors.

> The transmitters and receives can only transmit and receive _exactly_ eight bits at a time (including the parity bit).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The transmitters and receivers can only transmit and receive _exactly_ eight bits at a time (including the parity bit).
```

The parity bit is set so that there is an _even_ number 1s in each transmission and is always the first bit from the right.
So if the receiver receives `11000001`, `01110101` or `01000000` (i.e. a transmission with an odd number of 1 bits), it knows there is an error.

However, messages are rarely this short.
The message needs to be transmitted in a sequence when they are longer.

For example, consider the message `11000000 00000001 11000000 11011110` (or in `C0 01 C0 DE` hex).

Since each transmission contains exactly eight bits, it can only contain seven bits of data and the parity bit.
A parity bit must then be inserted after every seven bits of data:

```text
11000000 00000001 11000000 11011110
      ↑       ↑       ↑       ↑        (7th bits)
```

> So transmission sequence for this message looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transmission sequence for this message looks like this:
```

```text
1100000_ │ 0000000_ │ 0111000_ │ 0001101_ │ 1110
       ↑          ↑          ↑          ↑         (parity bit locations)
```

The data in the first transmission in the sequence (`1100000`) has two 1 bits (an even number), so the parity bit is 0.
The first transmission becomes `11000000` (or `C0` in hex).

> The data in the next transmission (`0000000`) has none (an even number again), so the parity bit is 0 again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The data in the next transmission (`0000000`) has zero 1 bits (an even number again), so the parity bit is 0 again.
```

> The second transmission becomes `00000000` (or `00` in hex).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The second transmission thus becomes `00000000` (or `00` in hex).
```

The data for the next two transmissions (`0111000` and `0001101`) have three 1 bits.
Their parity bits are set to 1 so that they have an even number of 1 bits in the transmission.
They are transmitted as `01110001` and `00011011` (or `71` and `1B` in hex).

The last transmission (`1110`) has only four bits of data.

> Since exactly eight bits are transmitted at a time and the parity bit is the right most bit, three 0 bits and then the parity bit is added to make up eight bits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since exactly eight bits are transmitted at a time and the parity bit is the right most bit, three 0 bits and then the parity bit are added to make up eight bits.
```

It now looks like this (where `_` is the parity bit):

```text
1110 000_
     ↑↑↑   (added 0 bits)
```

> There is an odd number of 1 bits again, so the parity bit is to 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is an odd number of 1 bits again, so the parity bit is 1.
```

The last transmission in the sequence becomes `11100001` (or `E1` in hex).

The entire transmission sequence for this message then `11000000 00000000 01110001 00011011 11100001` (or `C0 00 71 1B E1` in hex).

> Your job is to help implement the message sequencer to calculate the transmission sequence and the decoder for receiving messages.

Reviewer 3: We usually have this line at the start of the instructions.

# Instructions

> Your job is to help implement the message sequencer, which calculates the transmission sequence, and the decoder for receiving messages.

Reviewer 4: @kahgoh I've noticed that my previous suggestion reads slightly awkward. What do you think of this?
```suggestion
Your job is to help implement the message sequencer, which calculates the transmission sequence, and the decoder, which decodes messages.
```

Author: I was just thinking perhaps a bullet list might be easier to read:

```suggestion
Your job is to help implement the following:
- the message sequencer, which calculates the transmission sequence, and
- the decoder for receiving messages
```

Reviewer 4: @kahgoh Sure, that's fine I think (the "and" that connects the two items isn't needed).

> Your job is to help implement the following:
> 
> - the message sequencer, which calculates the transmission sequence
> - the decoder, which decodes the messages

Reviewer 4: It might be a good idea to make it more clear how the sequencer and decoder are connected to the transmitter and receiver. Maybe we can also use a single sentence formatted as bulleted list with an "and" to connect the items. Something like this?
```suggestion
Your job is to help implement

- the transmitter, which calculates the transmission sequence, and
- the receiver, which decodes it.
```

Reviewer 4: @kahgoh The "message sequencer" and "decoder" are still unchanged. Is this intentional? Looks like you forgot to change them.

Author: Ah, I had missed that.

# Instructions

> Your job is to help implement the message sequencer to calculate the transmission sequence and the decoder for receiving messages.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Your job is to help implement the message sequencer, which calculates the transmission sequence, and the decoder for receiving messages.
```

A parity bit is simple way of detecting transmission errors.
The transmitters and receivers can only transmit and receive _exactly_ eight bits at a time (including the parity bit).
The parity bit is set so that there is an _even_ number 1s in each transmission and is always the first bit from the right.
So if the receiver receives `11000001`, `01110101` or `01000000` (i.e. a transmission with an odd number of 1 bits), it knows there is an error.

> However, messages are rarely this short.
> The message needs to be transmitted in a sequence when they are longer.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, messages are rarely this short, and need to be transmitted in a sequence when they are longer.
```

The parity bit is set so that there is an _even_ number 1s in each transmission and is always the first bit from the right.
So if the receiver receives `11000001`, `01110101` or `01000000` (i.e. a transmission with an odd number of 1 bits), it knows there is an error.

However, messages are rarely this short, and need to be transmitted in a sequence when they are longer.

For example, consider the message `11000000 00000001 11000000 11011110` (or `C0 01 C0 DE` in hex).

Since each transmission contains exactly eight bits, it can only contain seven bits of data and the parity bit.
A parity bit must then be inserted after every seven bits of data:

```text
11000000 00000001 11000000 11011110
      ↑       ↑       ↑       ↑        (7th bits)
```

The transmission sequence for this message looks like this:

```text
     1st      │     2nd      │     3rd      │     4th      │     5th
 transmission │ transmission │ transmission │ transmission │ transmission
              │              │              │              │
   1100000_   │   0000000_   │   0111000_   │   0001101_   │    1110

>           ↑              ↑              ↑              ↑                   (parity bit locations)

Author: I think that looks fine as well.
